Police on Monday booked a case against a software engineer and beauty influencer for allegedly assaulting a Zomato delivery executive when he had gone to deliver food to her flat in Bengaluru’s Electronic City last week. The police action against Hitesha Chandranee, 31, followed a counter-complaint by delivery executive Kamaraj. Sources said police have booked Hitesha under Indian Penal Code sections for wrongful restraint, assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person and criminal intimidation. The woman had claimed that the food was delivered to her 59 minutes late on March 9 and she was assaulted when she sought to cancel the order. Following a complaint filed by Hitesha on March 10, cops registered a case against the delivery executive under IPC sections. Soon after the incident, Hitesha posted it on a social-media platform with images of her bleeding nose, which she said was the result of Kamaraj punching her after an argument over delay in delivery. Zomato suspended Kamaraj, while Electronic City police arrested him and released him on bail. Kamaraj, who had worked with Zomato for three years, countered Hitesha’s allegation, stating she abused him in filthy language and hurled slippers at him. He further said she injured herself on her nose from her finger ring in the process of assaulting him. He said the roads he took to deliver food were under construction and had over 10 blockades. “While I apologised, the woman continued to hurl abuses and asked me to carry back the food. I was trying to defend myself. The injury may have been caused by the woman’s ring,” he had said. Zomato founder Deepinder Goyal later said the firm is covering Hitesha’s medical expenses and, at the same time, was providing legal assistance, besides covering his earnings. He said Kamaraj had made about 5,000 deliveries for Zomato and had a rating of 4.75/5 on the platform. After his version came out in the public domain, Kamaraj drew a lot of support. Bollywood actor Parineeti Chopra tweeted, “Zomato India, please find and publicly report the truth. If the gentleman is innocent (and I believe he is), please help us penalise the woman in question. This is inhuman, shameful and heart-breaking. Please let me know how I can help."